Let's see a concrete illustration of how boosting algorithm works so boosting is going to combine several
very very simple learners in order to end up with a powerful classifier.
So in this case we had two features x1 and x2.
So basically we are dealing with points on the two dimensional plane.
We have two classes.
The green class and the yellow class.
So what's the aim of the algorithm.
We would like to end up with the separation of the green dots and yellow dots.
By the way decision trees with depth 1.
So decisions stamps are able to make linear classification so a given learner or in this case is not
able to separate the dots in a nonlinear manner.
It is able to separate in a linear manner.
So we have a linear line.
So for example in the first iteration of the first week learner tries to separate the green dots from
the yellow dot.
Of course we are not able to separate the yellow class from the green cloth.
We are happy for linear line because it is a nonlinearly separable problem but it is a good guess as
you can see.
OK.
All of the green dots are under the blackline.
And some of the yellow dots are above the black line.
So basically it is working quite fine but there are some misclassified items.
So this yellow dot and this yellow dot are misclassified.
So in the next iteration boosting algorithm is going to focus on the misclassified items.
So it comes to the conclusion that these dogs are classified correctly.
So in the next iteration it is not going to border.
We correctly classified items.
We are trying to classify the misclassified items in the previous iteration and basically we are able
to do it with the half of the weights paramita the algorithm is going to assign a given w weight parameter
to every single sample in the data set.
In this case the samples are the door.
So every single Daut has a double you weight perimeter and does double uate parameter is going to decide
how important the given sample in the actual iteration.
So that's why in a given iteration or given the decision stamp makes the classification.
For example in the Swan And if they are correctly classified items and await weight paramita or for
these correctly classified items are decrees that and await perimeter for the misclassified items are
increased.
Why is it good.
Because in the next iteration boosting algorithm we all know that.
OK.
It has to focus on these data points.
OK so for example in the next iteration boosting algorithm tries de-classified the misclassified item.
So this one and this on.
Of course it is not able to classify all of them at the same time because it is a nonlinearly separable
problem.
But as you can see it is able to classify correctly.
This yellow dot because in this case the yellow dot is on the left side of the decision boundary and
all the green dots are on the right side of the decision boundary.
We don't care about these points because in their previous iteration they were classified correctly.
OK.
In this iteration at this point it's classified correctly as well.
So in the next iteration boosting algorithm will focus on the last misclassified item.
Ok for example where did this decision boundary.
It is able to separate these Daut from all the other green dots.
So what is it mean that we have managed to come up with stree very very simple and a weak decision tree
learners in order to separate all their yellow dots from all the green dots.
So if we combine these weak classifiers we are able to come up with a known linear decision boundary
that's able to separate the green dots from the yellow dots.
And basically as you can see boosting is a sequential algorithm in the first iteration the first classifier
is going to make a prediction.
OK it is not the best one possible because it is not able to separate all the yellow dots from all the
green dot.
That's why we need further iterations in the next iteration.
A new week classifier is going to make a decision OK.
It is able to classify and sample.
But again we have some misclassified Daut OK in the next iteration boosting algorithm is going to create
another week learner that's able to de-classified the next misclassified point and so on.
And finally boosting algorithm is going to combine all of these weak learners in order to come up with
a strong classifier because it is a strong classifier as you can see it is able to classify green dots
and yellow dots.
OK.
In the next lecture we are going to talk about the concrete mathematical implementation and equations
as far as boosting is concerned.
Thanks for watching.